---
title: an improv instrument
---

On my long drive(s) today I was thinking a lot about
crafting a new musical improv system for collaborative
performances. I want to be able to pack up a small
system and take it with me to jam with other folks.

My usual approach of creating micro-compositions in 
TidalCycles doesn't seem to fit this need. I want
something that wouldn't require any typing or 
major preparation beforehand, and I think I need something
that is more tactile.

### Requirements

So what are my requirements? 

I don't know! Maybe stuff like this:

- immediately turn on the system and make sound from manual controls
- react quickly to what I hear, or to what other performers are doing
- be able to produce percussive or textural sounds when needed
- be able to produce harsher or softer sounds when needed
- introduce elements of repetition, whether that's looping, melody, or timbre

So what are the options?

### TidalCycles + Samples

pros:

- I know TidalCycles extremely well
- range possibilities for open improv is very large

cons:

- high latency to react to changes on the fly
- limited by samples; can require massive amounts of typing to tweak sounds in a desired way

### Elektron Analog RYTM

I know the RYTM better than any other piece of gear I own,
which makes it an obvious candidate. 

pros:

- comfortable synth for me

cons:

- performance macros need to be created ahead of time
- making changes outside of the performance macros require menu-diving
- performance macros are based on touch pressure and can't be easily held

### Eurorack Modular

pros:

- possibilities are more open-ended
- can patch/craft exactly the system I want

cons:

- I likely do not own all of the components I would want; expensive
- limited by case capacity

### VCV Rack

pros:

- runs on a laptop
- possibilities are very open-ended
- can craft the system I want

cons:

- would require inclusion of external controllers to achieve a tactile interface
- limited by CPU


### Conclusion?

Right now I'm leaning toward VCV Rack as it is the cheapest and
most open-ended option. RYTM would be my 2nd choice; also "cheapest",
but would be more limited in possible outcomes. Eurorack is my 3rd 
choice, as I would likely need to acquire some new modules to 
achieve the tactile interface I'm desiring.